
Minnewaska

Mountain

Houses

1898




[Illustration: The Wildmere House]

[Illustration: The Cliff House]




Lake Minnewaska

IS located on the summit of the Shawangunk Mountains, ten miles
southwest of New Paltz, in Ulster County, New York. New Paltz, a station
on the Wallkill Valley Railroad, is eighty-eight miles (about three and
one-half hours) distant from New York; nine miles west of Poughkeepsie,
on the Hudson, and fifteen miles southwest of Kingston. N.Y.

This lake, which is fed by springs and is very deep and clear as
crystal, is held in a strikingly picturesque, rocky and well-wooded
bowl, rising one hundred and fifty feet above the lake on the eastern
side and sixty feet on the western, and from either edge the rocks
tumble precipitously down to the Wallkill and Hudson River Valleys on
the one side, and to the Rondout Valley on the other.

Minnewaska is now widely known as a summer resort:

_First_. For the remarkably bracing and restoring quality of its
atmosphere. It being on the crown of a ridge, dew seldom falls. The
drainage of each house is away from the lake and far down the mountain
side, and the hills all around are covered with resinous pine forests.

_Second_. For the remarkably select character of the guests who frequent
the place, a large portion of whom return year after year.

_Third_. For the wonderful and unique combination of the grand and the
picturesque in its scenery.

Awosting

Falls

Within a mile of the lake are these picturesque falls, above sixty feet
high; and about half a mile lower down, the same stream falls over one
hundred feet by a series of pretty cascades.

[Illustration: Awosting falls]

[Illustration: The Wildmere]

[Illustration: Awosting Lake]

The Great

Crevices

About three-quarters of a mile distant are a series of wonderful rents
in the mountains over one hundred feet deep, some of the fissures being
open to the light and others covered.

Millbrook

Mountains

One and three-fourths miles from the lake are the Millbrook Mountains,
where the cliffs are in some places perpendicular, and in others
over-hanging the rocks five hundred feet below. The views here are
remarkably grand and impressive.

The

Palmaghatt

Still nearer, in a deep glen of the mountain, is the Palmaghatt, where
is a large forest of massive primeval hemlocks. To all these and many
other strange and picturesque places, good walks have been constructed,
and a large number of covered seats and summer-houses (about ninety in
all) have been built. Three drives have been built recently to Millbrook
Mountains, Kempton Ledge, and Beacon Hill.

Awosting

Lake

Since last season over two thousand acres adjoining Minnewaska have been
added to the estate, which now covers above five thousand acres of land.
This new tract includes the magnificent Awosting Lake, having four times
the extent of Lake Minnewaska; also the lofty High Point; the bold
Hamilton Ledge, several miles long and several hundred feet in
perpendicular height; the picturesque Stonykill Falls, ninety-five feet
high, and much other strange scenery peculiar to the Shawangunk
Mountains.

New

Roads

A fine road, three and one-half miles long, has been built from
Minnewaska to Awosting Lake, passing through the wild Huntington Ravine
(Dark Hole). During the spring and summer this road will be extended
around the lake four and one-half miles farther. Another road has been
built through the Palmaghatt to the edge of Hamilton Ledge. All these
roads are of very easy grades, being for the most part nearly level, and
are specially adapted to the use of the bicycle.

[Illustration: The ferns]

[Illustration: Undercliff]

Approaches to

Minnewaska

By West Shore Railroad to Kingston, and by special trains to New Paltz.

By New York, Ontario & Western Railway from New York to New Paltz, via
Cornwall and Campbell Hall.

By New York Central & Hudson River Railroad or by New York and Albany
day boats to Kingston Point, and by rail to New Paltz.

By New York, Lake Erie & Western Railroad to Goshen, and by Wallkill
Valley Railroad to New Paltz.

The Highland & New Paltz Electric Railroad will make good connections
with New York Central and West Shore trains at Poughkeepsie and
Highland.

After the summer time-tables are arranged, schedules of trains, etc.,
will be sent on application.

Tickets from New York, Brooklyn, and Philadelphia will be sold to and
from New Paltz, and baggage checked through.

Parties wishing to inspect the rooms in May will be met at the train
upon proper notice being given, and when wishing to stay over night, can
be comfortably accommodated at one of the houses.

[Illustration: The Wildmere]

The Cliff House

Opened in 1879 and enlarged in 1881, will accommodate about two hundred
and twenty-five guests.

This house is located on the eastern side of the lake on a commanding
height, eighteen hundred feet above tide-water, or nearly as high as the
Catskill Mountain House; and from nearly every room in the hotel there
are magnificent valley and mountain views, taking in the mountains of
New Jersey on the south; the highlands of the Hudson and Newburg Bay to
the southeast; the Housatonic Mountains of Connecticut to the east; the
whole line of the Berkshire Mountains of Massachusetts and the Green
Mountains of Vermont to the northeast; the Helderberg Mountains to the
north; the bold outline of the Catskills and the Shandaken Mountains to
the northwest: and the Neversink and Shawangunk Hills to the west. The
views embrace several river valleys, including the valley of the Hudson
from Cornwall to the mountains about Lake George. From the cupola of
this house six States can be seen at one view.

To accommodate the constantly increasing patronage, a new hotel was
opened in 1887 on the western edge of this rocky rim, called the

Wildmere house

This is somewhat larger than the Cliff House, and commands very similar
views. The Wildmere is lighted with gas, the halls are heated by
furnaces, while the rooms, both public and private, are mostly provided
with open fireplaces for burning the resinous mountain pine that abounds
in this region. A large portion of the rooms in both houses are provided
with private balconies.

[Illustration]

Reading Rooms.

In each house is a large and well-lighted reading-room, containing all
the leading English and American monthly and quarterly periodicals and
weekly and daily papers, and also a carefully selected library of books
for reading and reference.

Postal and Telegraph Offices

Will be open during the season at the lake. Telegrams should be
addressed to Lake Minnewaska, N. Y., and letters to Minnewaska P. O.,
Ulster County, N. Y.

A Good Physician

Will reside permanently at the lake.

The Wildmere house

Opens June 15th and closes October 1st to 10th.

The Cliff house

Opens June 29th and closes about September 15th.

Both Minnewaska houses

Will be kept on a strictly TEMPERANCE PLAN. The same arrangements with
regard to meats, fruits, cream, etc., that have made the table so
satisfactory for the past nineteen years, have been made for the coming
season.

Visitors

Are not expected to arrive or depart on Sunday.

No dogs taken.

Rates of

Board.

_June_: single rooms, $11 to $14; double rooms. $22 to $25. _July and
August_: single rooms, $15 to $20; double rooms, $25 to $35. _From
September 1st to close of the season:_ single rooms, $14 to $16; double
rooms, $25 to $28. Day rates: _June_. $2; _July and August_, $3; _after
September 1st_, $2.50. Liberal arrangements will be made for families
coming early.

For further information, address

ALFRED H. SMILEY. Proprietor, MINNEWASKA P. O., N. Y.

[Illustration: Summer house on Lake]

Boating.

Boat liveries are operated in connection with both houses. They are
provided with the celebrated St. Lawrence River skiffs, which can be
rented by the week or day, with or without oarsmen, at reasonable rates.
Eight skiffs have been added to the fleet since last season. Owing to
the land-locked location of the lake, ladies and children can enjoy the
pleasures of boating with perfect safety.

Bathing.

Another of the many attractions of the lake is the delightful
still-water bathing. The water is soft, becomes warm early in the
season, and the bathing is free from enervating effects usually
experienced in fresh-water bathing. Two new bath-houses, exclusively for
ladies, have been constructed, and a bathing-master and life-guard are
always present to assist ladies and children.

Recreation.

Exercise in the open air is acknowledged by every one to be of the
greatest assistance in the recuperation of the nervous system and a
grand specific for building up the physical body. Every effort has been
put forth to stimulate and foster active exercise. Walking parties find
each year new paths leading through deep forests to quiet recesses of
the mountains and points of vantage hitherto unapproachable.

Sports, Etc.

The ball ground, tennis courts, bowling alleys and shuffle boards give
an ample field for the spirit of contest, while the many delightful
walks and drives meet the requirements of those in search of moderate
exercise.

Verderskill falls.

A view of this charming cascade is shown on this page. The falls are
situated two miles beyond Awosting Lake.

References

THE management at Lake Minnewaska has aimed to provide the comforts of a
good home at reasonable rates for the refined and moral classes, where
they could enjoy the splendid scenery without molestation from the fast
and rougher elements of society. That this object has been attained, the
proprietor would respectfully refer to the following persons, nearly all
of whom have remained at the lake for a considerable period of
time--many of them for several years in succession. None of these
persons have been consulted as to this use of their names, but any of
them, doubtless, if approached at proper times, would be glad to give
any information they may possess about the lake. The names are selected
to represent a variety of professions and circles of society and are
arranged alphabetically.

NEW YORK.

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Abbott, 13 Astor Place.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Robt. K. Booth, 177 West End Ave.

Prof. and Mrs. H. Carrington Bolton, University Club

Mr. and Mrs. Win. B. Boulton, 13 E. 34th St.

Dr. D. M. Cammann, 19 E. 33d St.

Mr. and Mrs. Herman H. Cammann, 43 W. 38th St.

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Clarkson, 15 W. 45th St.

Dr. Floyd M. Crandall, 113 W. 95th St.

Dr. D. Bryson Delevan, 1 E. 33d St.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Dodd, 222 W. 70th St.

Prof, and Mrs. Chas. A. Doremus, 59 W. 51st St.

Mr. and Mrs. B. Greef, 106 Spring St.

Mr. Samuel B. Haines, 52 E. 78th St.

Mr. Daniel Huntington, 49 E. 20th St.

Miss Cornelia Jay, 155 W. 58th St.

Dr. John Jay.

Rev. and Mrs. E. H. Krans, 33 W. 12th St.

Mr. and Mrs. H. Pi. Laidlaw, 31 W. 73rd St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Peck, 22 E. 55th St.

Mrs. T. M. Peters, 264 W. 94th St.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Pierce, 333 W. 85th St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. M. Spackman, 820 Madison Ave.

Ki v. and Mrs. L. H. Schwab, 101 Lawrence St.

Mr. and Mrs. James Talcott, 7 W. 57th St.

Mr. W. VanNorden, 16 W. 48th St.

Dr. and Mrs. Richard VanSantvord, 106 W. 122d St.

Mr. F. S. Wait, 1 E. 39th St.

Dr. and Mrs. Jos. E. Winters, 25 W. 37th St.


[Illustration: Peterskill falls]

BROOKLYN.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Lyman Abbott, Columbia Heights.

Rev. and Mrs. J. A. Billingsley, 446 Macon St.

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Bruen, 256 Cumberland St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. B. Crittenden, 66 Willow St.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Cromwell, 29 Brevoort Place.

Mr. and Mrs. T. Henry Dewey, 95 Willow St.

Mr. A. H. DeWitt, 120 Willow St.

Dr. and Mrs. Z. Taylor Emory, 481 Washington Ave.

Miss M. Latimer, 63 Remsen St.

Dr. and Mrs. E. A. Lewis, 102 Pierrepont St.

Mr. Edward Merritt, 3 Monroe Place.

Mrs. James Miller, 21 Schermerhorn St.

Mr. and Mrs. M. A. Ruland, 292 Greene Ave.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. F. Squibb, 152 Columbia Heights.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Tiebout, 112 Prospect Park, West.

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Williams, 401 Clinton Ave.

PHILADELPHIA.

Mr. and Mrs. Jos. W. Baker, Chestnut Hill.

Miss H. S. Benson, Chestnut Hill.

Hon. Craig Biddle, 2033 Pine St.

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Biddle, 1714 Locust St.

Mr. and Mis. J. C. Browne, 907 Clinton St.

Mr. W. H. Castle, 4241 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. B. B. Comegys, 4205 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Thos. P. Cope, Chew St., near Walnut.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Corson, 11th and Pine Sts.

Hon. and Mrs. Geo. M. Dallas, 1514 Pine St.

Rev. and Mrs. J. B. Douglass, 2213 Locust St.

Mr. and Mrs. Patterson Dubois, 1031 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Evans, 2033 Locust St.

Mrs. Elizabeth H. Farnum, 1214 Arch St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. West Frazier, 701 S. Front St.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Garrett, Logan P. O.

Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Gillingham, 5314 Knox St.

Mr. and Mrs. F. Ross Hansen, 3604 Barring St.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. C. Harrison, 1618 Locust St.

Mrs. Geo. L. Harrison, School Lane.

Mr. Charles Hartshorne, 228 S. Third St.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. S. Hinchman, 3635 Chestnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. B. Keen, 4210 Walnut St.

Dr. and Mrs. A. F. Kempton, 2118 Pine St.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Lewis, 123 S. 22d St.

Rev. and Mrs. W. P. Lewis, 1346 Pine St.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Mellor, 2130 Mt. Vernon St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. H. Merrick, School Lane, Germantown.

Judge and Mrs. Clement B. Penrose, Germantown.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Prime, 1008 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Richardson, 1307 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. Sayres, 1825 Spruce St.

Dr. Jos. A. Seiss, 1338 Spring Garden St.

Mr. and Mrs. Coleman Sellers, 3301 Barring St.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. C. Ellis Stevens, 2217 Spruce St.

Mrs. Wm. Bacon Stevens, 1914 S. Rittenhouse Sq.

Hon. and Mrs. M. Russell Thayer, 1824 Pine St.

Mr. Chas. W. Trotter, 2024 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Watmough, 2114 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Jos. M. Wilson, 1106 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Cresson Wistar, 5355 Knox St.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Wood. 2038 Spring Garden St.

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Zanzinger, 1736 Pine St.

[Illustration: Cliff house Looking South]

MISCELLANEOUS.

Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Ackerman, Chicago, 111.

Dr. and Mrs. Francis Bacon, New Haven, Conn.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin, Irvington-on-Hudson.

Rev. and Mrs. Alfred B. Baker, Princeton, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Thos. P. Barn field, Pan-tucket, R. I.

Gen. and Mrs. John S. Berry, Baltimore, Md.

Mr. J. R. Campbell, Oil City, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. G. S. Capelle, Wilmington, Del.

Mrs. I. W. Cochran, Morristown, N. J.

Prof, and Mrs. Geo. E. Day, Divinity School, New Haven, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. DeGraff, Plainfield, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. H. Doane, Auburn Ave., Cincinnati, O.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eddison, Irvington-on-Hudson.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Elliot, Baltimore, Md.

Prof. Geo. P. Fisher, New Haven, Conn.

Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Frissell, Hampton, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Gilman, Palisade Avenue. Yonkers, N. Y.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. C. Glover, 20 Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C.

Judge and Mrs. A. B. Hagner, Washington, D. C.

Rev. Teunis F. Hamlin, 1306 Connecticut Avenue, Washington, D. C.

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hicks, Old Westbury, L. I.

Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Higbee, Cleveland, O.

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Holman, Tenerly, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. H. T. Hull, Morristown, N. J.

Prof, and Mrs. T. W. Hunt, Princeton, N. J.

Mrs. George Inness, Montclair, N. J.

Rev. and Mrs. D. O. Irving, East Orange, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Geo. E. Ketchum, 135 Locust Hill Ave., Yonkers, N. Y.

Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Kilborne, Orange, N. J.

Rev. and Mrs. J. P. E. Kumler, 413 S. Highland Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Langdon, Elizabeth, N. J.

Miss Grace Denio Litchfield, Washington, D. C.

Rev. and Mrs. James M. Ludlow, East Orange, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. D. Murray, Plainfield, N. J.

Mrs. Henry J. Owen, 10 Mercer St., Princeton, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Patterson, Plainfield, N. J.

Prof, and Mrs. Frank C. Porter, New Haven, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Price, Newark, N. J.

Hon. and Mrs. F. O. Prince, 311 Beacon St., Boston.

Rev. Geo. T. Purves, Princeton, N. J.

Pres. and Mrs. G. W. Smith, Trinity College, Hartford, Conn.

Mrs. C. E. Stockley, Euclid Place, Cleveland, O.

Mrs. N. H. Swayne, Toledo, O.

Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Tillinghast, Englewood, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Evarts Tracy. Plainfield, N. J.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. A. G. Vermilye, Englewood, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dudley Warner, Hartford, Conn.

Gen. and Mrs. J. H. Watmouth, Washington, D. C.

Prof, and Mrs. J. F. Weir, New Haven, Conn.

Mrs. J. Willock, Allegheny, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. Geo. P. Wilson, 4 First St., Albany.

Mrs. C. P. Wurts, New Haven, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis Yarnall, Haverford College, Pa.

[Illustration: The Wildmere Cliff Summer houses]

[Illustration: The Cliffs from Wildmere]

[Illustration: Lake Shore Walk]

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Minnewaska Mountain Houses, by Anonymous

